---
layout: post
title:  "OWASP - Web Securtiy Testing Guide (WSTG) v4.2 - Notes"
date:   2024-08-24 10:43
image:  /images/owasp/owasp_logo.png
tags:   [notes]
categories: [owasp]
---

# OWASP - Web Securtiy Testing Guide (WSTG) v4.2 - Notes
>
<b>Reference:</b>
<br/>
<a href="https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/v42/">OWASP Web Security Testing Guide v4.2</a>
<br/>

### [Passive Testing](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/v42/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/01-Information_Gathering/README) 

<hr/>

 - Tester explores the application to understand its logic and functionality as a user.
 - Information gathering tools (e.g., HTTP proxy) can be used to observe HTTP requests and responses.
- By the end of passive testing, the tester should identify all access points (e.g., HTTP headers, parameters, cookies, APIs).
<br/><br/>
<b>Example:</b> Identifying authentication forms or URL parameters that represent access points.
Importance for Active Testing:

- Input points identified during passive testing are targets for active testing.
Tracking the application's directory or call tree and access points is useful for later testing stages.

### Active Testing 

<hr/>

During active testing, a tester begins to use the methodologies described in the follow sections.

The set of active tests have been split into <b>12 categories:</b>

- Information Gathering
- Configuration and Deployment Management Testing
- Identity Management Testing
- Authentication Testing
- Authorization Testing
- Session Management Testing
- Input Validation Testing
- Error Handling
- Cryptography
- Business Logic Testing
- Client-side Testing
- API Testing

### Information Gathering 

<hr/>
<b>Objective:</b> 
- Identify exposed sensitive design and configuration information.
- Check both the organization's website and third-party services.

### [Web Server Fingerprinting](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/v42/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/01-Information_Gathering/02-Fingerprint_Web_Server) 

<hr/>

#### Banner Grabbing:
- Involves sending an HTTP request to a web server.
- Examines the server's response header to gather information.
- Can be done using tools like telnet (for HTTP) or openssl (for SSL).

### [Review Webserver Metafiles for Information Leakage](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/v42/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/01-Information_Gathering/03-Review_Webserver_Metafiles_for_Information_Leakage)

<hr/>

#### Robots:

- Review the `Robot` exclusion list which is saved in the `robots.txt` file in the web root directory.

#### META Tags:

- Investig meta tags to identify information leakage.

#### Site Maps:

- A sitemap is a file that lists pages, videos, and other content on a website or application.
- It provides information about the relationships between these elements.
- Search engines use sitemaps to explore and index the site more intelligently.
- Testers can use the sitemap to understand the site’s structure for more comprehensive exploration.

#### Security TXT:

- `security.txt` is a standard for websites to define security policies and contact details.
- Useful for testing: discovering resources, gathering intelligence, finding bug bounty info, and social engineering.
- Located in the root of the webserver or in the .well-known/ directory.

#### Humans TXT:

- `humans.txt` is a text file listing the people who contributed to building a website.
- It may include career or job-related information.
- Aims to highlight the team behind the site.


#### Other .well-known Information Sources:

- The `.well-known/` directory contains standardized files as suggested by various RFCs and drafts.
- Testers can review these documents to create a list for crawlers or fuzzers to check for the existence and content of these files.
- [Wikipedia - Well-known URI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Well-known_URI#List_of_well-known_URIs)
- [Iana - Well-known URIs](https://www.iana.org/assignments/well-known-uris/well-known-uris.xhtml)

### [Identify Application Entry Points](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/v42/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/01-Information_Gathering/06-Identify_Application_Entry_Points)

<hr/>


<hr/>